# Google Analytics Certificate Capstone 
#### Case Study 2 - BellaBeat

## Summary 
### The Company
Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of health-focused products for women. Is a successful small company, but they have the potential to become a larger player in the global smart device market.

- The Golden Circle <br/>
**Why** : The mission of Bellabeat is to empower women to reconnect with themselves, unleash their inner strengths and be what they were meant to be. <br/>
**How** : They do that with an ecosystem of products and services that focus on women’s health. <br/>
**What** : Wearables using feminine design and technology adjusted to female bodies.

### Why tracking health habits ?

Chronic disease can result in loss of independence, years of disability, or death, and impose a considerable economic burden on health services.
Today, chronic diseases are a major public health problem worldwide. In 2005, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that 61 per cent of all deaths -- 35 million -- and 49 per cent of the global burden of disease were attributable to chronic diseases. By 2030, the proportion of total global deaths due to chronic diseases is expected to increase to 70 per cent and the global burden of disease to 56 per cent.
The combination of four healthy lifestyle factors -- maintaining a healthy weight, exercising regularly, following a healthy diet, and not smoking -- seem to be associated with as much as an 80 per cent reduction in the risk of developing the most common and deadly chronic diseases.

https://www.un.org/en/chronicle/article/lifestyle-diseases-economic-burden-health-services 

## 1. Ask

### 1.1 - Business Task 

Identify trends in how consumers use non-Bellabeat smart devices and how these insights can be applied into Bellabeat’s marketing strategy.

**Stakeholders**<br/>
Urška Sršen - Bellabeat cofounder and Chief Creative Officer<br/>
Sando Mur - Bellabeat cofounder and key member of Bellabeat executive team<br/>
Bellabeat Marketing Analytics team

## 2. Prepare

### 2.1 - Where is the data stored ?

The Dataset named FitBit Fitness Tracker Data is available on Kaggle, in this link . It is available by the user Mobius.
 
For the analysis all dataset is going to be downloaded and stored into google’s drive folder.

### 2.2 - How is the data organized ?
 
The Dataset contains 18 files, listed below, and ordered by name.

**TABELA**

### 2.3 - Bias and credibility

**Reliable**: Not reliable because it doesn’t represent the overall population. Sample too small.<br/>
**Original**: Not original. Third party provider. Generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk<br/>
**Comprehensive**: some information like demographics are missing<br/>
**Current**: Not Current. For the moment that this report is being made, this dataset is outdated (distributed between 03.12.2016 and 05.12.2016)<br/>
**Cited**: Unknown because was collected by a third party provider
 
### 2.4 - Security and Privacy 

The dataset has a license CC0: Public domain. So is permitted to copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial purposes, all without asking permission.


## 3. Process

### 3.1 - Storage 
 
Download of all 18 csv files from kaggle database.

Storaged everything on google`s drive folder.

### 3.2 -  Filtering (Used Spreadsheets)

Approached each table and used "Filter" to check for Null values.

In Table 18, for the column "Fat" there was 65 blank spaces, corresponding for 97,01%, because of that, the entire column was deleted.

### 3.3 -  Changes (Used Spreadsheets)

All columns that contains DateTime was change for a 24h DateTime.<br/>

###  3.4 -  Unique users (Used SQL - Bigquery)

For access unique users in each tables

'''sql

	SELECT COUNT(distinct Id)
	FROM **each table directory**
 
'''


**Results**

**Table 1:**  dailyActivity_merged.csv - 33 unique users<br/>
**Table 2:** dailyCalories_merged.csv - 33 unique users<br/>
**Table 3:** dailyIntensities_merged.csv - 33 unique users<br/>
**Table 4**: dailySteps_merged.csv - 33 unique users<br/>
**Table 5:** heartrate_seconds_merged.csv - 14 unique users<br/>
**Table 6:** hourlyCalories_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 7:**  hourlyIntensities_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 8:**  hourlySteps_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 9:** minutescaloriesNarrow_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 10:** minuteCaloriesWide_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 11:** minuteIntensitiesNarrow_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 12:** minuteIntensitiesWide_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 13:** minuteMETsNarrow_merged.csv - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 14:** minuteSleep_merged.csv - 24 unique users <br/>
**Table 15:** minuteStepsNarrow_merged - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 16:**minuteStepsWide_merged - 33 unique users <br/>
**Table 17:** sleepDay_merged.csv - 24 unique users <br/>
**Table 18:** weightLogInfo_merged - 8 unique users <br/>
 
### 3.5 - Round (Used SQL - Bigquery)
 
To make the number better for reading, some numbers were rounded with 2 decimals. Below, the information about each table. All columns that were motificated stayed with the same name previous the change adding "cleaned" in the end, and they were stored into a different dataset in Bigquery. <br/>
 
Table 1 - <br/>
Table 17 - 0 columns<br/>
Table 18 -  3 columns (WeightKg,WeightPounds,BMI)<br/>

## 4. Analyze 
### 4.1 - First, we are going to analyze the characteristics of app use 

#### 4.1.1 -  Adherence of each user, and classification in daily activities 

Using Table 1 that contains all users, we are going to check the adherence of each one per day. After that, classify them into: 

**Very low use:**< 25 % of the month<br/>
**Low use:**25 ~ 50 % of the month<br/>
**Moderate use:**50 ~ 75% of the month<br/>
**High use:**> 75% of the month<br/>

